<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">MYC Rules</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="MYC Rules" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2012-03-14T15:14:60" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.contributor" content="DK1RI"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2015-10-29T13:19:23.33" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:right ! important; }
	.P3 { font-size:14pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; text-align:center ! important; font-weight:bold; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; font-weight:normal; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; font-weight:normal; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; font-weight:normal; }
	.P8 { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P9 { font-size:11pt; font-family:Calibri; writing-mode:page; font-weight:normal; }
	.Standard { font-size:12pt; font-family:Times New Roman; writing-mode:page; }
	.Internet_20_link { color:#000080; text-decoration:underline; }
	.T1 { color:#0000ff; font-family:Times New Roman; font-size:12pt; text-decoration:underline; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:21.59cm;margin-top:2cm; margin-bottom:2cm; margin-left:2cm; margin-right:2cm; "><p class="P3">MYC Rules</p><p class="P4">Preliminary</p><p class="P4">Author: DK1RI</p><p class="P4">Version V01.7</p><p class="P5"> </p><p class="P5">This is very preliminary !!!!!</p><p class="P5">This document is in a very early state, additions are made, when necessary</p><p class="P5"> </p><p class="P5">Some explanation</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">A device can have rules to inform about additional conditions, which exist between the commands. </p><p class="Standard">The rules will show functionality of a command, if other commands have specific status.</p><p class="Standard">Limitation within a command should be described within the announcement of that command.</p><p class="Standard">If status and command are in the same device, the device will deliver the rule. Otherwise a special ruledevice (systemdevice) will do this.</p><p class="Standard">The rule will define, whether one or more commands are active or not, or that the status of a command  will change to another status. A application for this is to have errormessages on these conditions without the need to send these error messages as info.</p><p class="Standard">Those rules lines start with “R” and are forwarded to commandsending devices.</p><p class="Standard">“Q” rules are produced by the rulesdevice only send sent to the commandrouter only and are not forwarded. Up to now they are used for usermanagement. The commandrouter block commands for a interface, if necessary, for a specific user who logged in.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">The syntax of the rules should be very simple, Most probably the rules will be generated automatic, so the focus should be the effectiveness of handling the rules by a computer. Up to now rules lines are readable, because they must be easily programmed as a part of the announcements.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">The $&lt;c&gt; syntax is used to denote a command-token &lt;c&gt;  So the command translation of the command-router can be done easily.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">All “R” rules are always handled by the logic device in the sequence it get the rules. </p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">Rules lines can be empty to reserve the lines for later use.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">It is not decided, whether programs and user interface must interpret the rules as well.</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="P5">Definitions</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">&lt;c&gt;<span> </span><span> </span><span> commandtoken</span></p><p class="Standard">&lt;n&gt;<span> :</span><span> </span><span> numeric</span></p><p class="Standard">&lt;s&gt; <span> :</span><span> </span><span> String all characters, starting with the length</span></p><p class="Standard">&lt;p&gt;<span> </span><span> </span><span> parameter , sequence number in announcement</span></p><p class="Standard">Separator:<span>  </span><span> one or more spaces or tabs</span></p><p class="Standard">compare operator<span> = &lt; &gt;</span></p><p class="Standard">logic operator<span> </span><span> AND OR </span></p><p class="Standard">left side operators:<span> ! =</span></p><p class="Standard">right side operators:<span> ! = &lt; &gt; &lt;= &gt;= AND OR ( ) </span></p><p class="P5">Rules syntax</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">&lt;left side&gt; IF|UNLESS &lt;right side&gt;</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">left side:</p><p class="Standard">command is not working (!) or automatically set</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">[!]$&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;]| $&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;]=&lt;n&gt; [!]$&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;| $&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;]=&lt;n&gt;] ...</p><p class="Standard">Bracketing: !($&lt;c&gt;...&lt;c&gt;) allowed</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">right side:</p><p class="Standard">left side of the compare operator is a command ($) and optional parameter (&amp;)</p><p class="Standard">right side is the status which a answer command would get. It may be more than one parameters</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">[!]$&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;] &lt;logic operator&gt; &lt;n&gt;,[n] ... |</p><p class="Standard">$&lt;c&gt;[&amp;&lt;p&gt;] &lt;compare operator&gt; &lt;n&gt; [TO &lt;n&gt;] [&lt;logic operator&gt; $&lt;c&gt; [&amp;&lt;p&gt;]&lt;compare operator&gt; &lt;n&gt; [TO &lt;n&gt;]...</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">All words / tokens separated by a separator</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="P5">Reserved characters / words</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">( )<span> </span><span> </span><span> Bracketing</span></p><p class="Standard">!<span> </span><span> </span><span> right side:negation, left side: not active</span></p><p class="Standard">IF</p><p class="Standard">UNLESS</p><p class="Standard">AND</p><p class="Standard">OR</p><p class="Standard">&lt;</p><p class="Standard">&gt;</p><p class="Standard">=<span> </span><span> </span><span> left side: operator, right side: equal</span></p><p class="Standard">TO</p><p class="Standard">.<span> </span><span> </span><span> delimiter for parameter </span></p><p class="P5">Examples</p><p class="P5"> </p><p class="Standard">!$2 IF $5 = 0<span> </span><span> </span><span> means: Command 2 will not work if status of command 5 is 0</span></p><p class="Standard"><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> command 5 may be a power switch</span></p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">!$4 UNLESS $7 = 3500000 TO 3799999 OR 7000000 TO 7199999</p><p class="Standard"><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> means: Command 4 will work only if state 7 is in the range of .............</span></p><p class="Standard"><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> This would be used if the transceiver will transmit in amateur radio band </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> only</span></p><p class="Standard"><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> The values are transmitted values, not values of the description</span></p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">$252="wrong address" IF $8&amp;3 &lt; 16<span> </span></p><p class="Standard"><span> </span><span> </span><span> </span><span> set errormessage if parameter 3 of command 8 is &lt; 16</span></p><p class="P8">Copyright</p><p class="P9"> </p><p class="P7">Dieses Dokument darf unverändert kopiert werden.</p><p class="P7">Die Veränderung des Inhalts und die Verwendung von Teilen des Dokument ist nur mit Zustimmung des Autor gestattet.</p><p class="P7">Die Ideen in diesem Dokument unterliegen der GPL (Gnu Public Licence) soweit keine früheren, anderen Rechte betroffen sind.</p><p class="P7">This document can be copied without changes.</p><p class="P7">Modification of the content or usage of parts of the documnet require the agreement of the author.</p><p class="P7">The ideas of this document can be used under GPL (Gnu Public License) as long as no earlier other rights are affected.</p><p class="P6"> </p><p class="P5">Reference</p><p class="Standard"> </p><p class="Standard">[1]<span> <a href="http://www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/MYC.pdf" class="Internet_20_link">www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/MYC.pdf</a>  (deutsch)</span></p><p class="Standard">[2]<span> <a href="http://www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/MYC_en.pdf" class="Internet_20_link"><span class="T1">www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/MYC.pdf</span></a></span></p><p class="Standard">[3]</p><p class="Standard">[4]<span> <a href="http://www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/commands.pdf" class="Internet_20_link">www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/commands.pdf</a></span></p><p class="Standard">[5]</p><p class="Standard">[6]<span> <a href="http://www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/Reserved_tokens.pdf" class="Internet_20_link">www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/Reserved tokens.pdf</a></span></p><p class="Standard"><a href="http://www.dk1ri.de/common/myc/MYC_basic/MYC.pdf" class="Internet_20_link"/></p><p class="Standard"> </p></body></html>